Version 4 migration guide/blog draft (#1108)
wix/yoshi: website/blog/2018-03-12-yoshi-4.md

---
title: Yoshi 4: Slick and polished
author: Ran Yitzhaki, Ronen Amiel, Yair Haimovitch, Yaniv Efraim, Netanel Gilad, Artem Yavorsky
---

We're happy to announce the next major version of Yoshi (4). It's been almost 9 months since the last release and a lot have changed. We hope this release has helpful features for everyone.

We really tried to polish Yoshi as much as we can in this version to deliver great developer experience.

The highlights of the version and a migration guide are below.

## Highlights

Not all of the changes introduced in Yoshi 4 are listed here. For a full list of all changes see the [changelog](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/blob/version_4.x/CHANGELOG.md).

### Major version bumps

We've upgraded the version of Babel to 7, Jest's version to 24 and ESLint's version to 5. We've also upgraded many versions of smaller dependencies.

Some of these changes affect build times and bundle size.

> See [Yaniv's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=38m13s) to learn how it can help you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch [Yaniv's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=38m13s) to learn how it can help you.
```

### SVGs as React components

We've added a handy way of working with SVGs: Instead of running [svg2react-icon](https://github.com/wix/svg2react-icon) as a pre-build step, you can now import SVGs directly as React components:

```js
import { ReactComponent as Logo } from "./logo.svg";

const App = () => (
  <div>
    {/* Logo is an actual React component */}
    <Logo />
  </div>
);
```

> See [Ran's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=0m0s) to learn more about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch [Ran's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=0m0s) to learn more about it.
```

### App flow

> We want to create **great** developer experience. One that is tailored specifically for your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We want to deliver **great** developer experience, a one that specific to the type of application that you build.

Today, Yoshi is used to build many types of projects: Libraries, Servers and more. Understanding that most of our users are building apps, we wanted to design a specific flow, tailored for creating **client** and **fullstack** apps.

```

> App flow is a different (and hopefully better) developer experience that is specific to apps (not to be confused with libraries, which Yoshi also supports). Internally, instead of running many different tools (babel/typescript, sass/less) on various glob patterns, it creates a dedicated Webpack bundle, specifically for the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
App flow is an improved developer experience that is specific to apps. Internally, instead of running many different tools (babel/typescript, sass/less) on various glob patterns, it creates a dedicated Webpack bundle, specifically for the server.
```

> This has a few advantages::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has a few advantages:
```

- **Better local development experience :** Errors show clearly and your server's output is shown at your terminal (as opposed to `target/server.log`). Yoshi's output should be a lot clearer and without meaningless warnings.
- **No redundant server reloads:** When working in watch mode and a file is changed, we know if we should reload the client, server, or both. Changing client code will not trigger a server restart.
- **Fast server HMR:** When the server does need to get reloaded, we can make it happen a lot faster: `wix-bootstrap-ng` based servers can be reloaded almost instantly in local development.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add a note regarding client apps, something like:

While this flow greatly improves the local experience of **fullstack projects**, it also has many improvements for **client apps**.

We should probably list some of them.

I would also say that we intend to provide app-specific features to this flow and create different flows for other types of projects in the futures.

> See [Ronen's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=17m58s) to see how it is to work with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch [Ronen's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=17m58s) to see how it is to work with it.
```

> Watch [Ronen's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=17m58s) to see how it is to work with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Watch [Ronen's talk](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u05-l27kSY1l6YaSqScXNe2_Hp0V7gkh/view?t=17m58s) to see a demonstration of this workflow.
```

> ![app flow](assets/24-app-flow.png)

Reviewer: Consider using the alt text with something more meaningful, like

```suggestion
![A terminal showing the new app flow](assets/24-app-flow.png)
```

> ## Migration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Migration Guide
```

Like any major release, Yoshi v4 comes with some breaking changes. It's recommended to go over them to make the migration go easily. If you encounter any problems, please [open an issue](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/issues/new/choose).

This is the migration guide from v3 to v4. If you're still using Yoshi v1 or v2, follow their respective migration guides ([v1](https://wix.github.io/yoshi/blog/2018/03/15/yoshi-2), [v2](https://wix.github.io/yoshi/blog/2018/06/3/yoshi-3)) first.

> ### Bump dependencies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Bump Yoshi's version
```

I know that we have `yoshi-style-dependencies` but it still shows better what we're doing in this part of the migration

Inside any Yoshi project, run:

```

> npm install --save yoshi@4.1.0

Reviewer 2: I would also suggest that a lock file should be removed before the installation. (if exist)

> npm install --save yoshi@4.1.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npm install --save-dev yoshi@4.1.0
```

```

If you depend on [yoshi-style-dependencies](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/tree/version_4.x/packages/yoshi-style-dependencies) or [yoshi-angular-dependencies](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/tree/version_4.x/packages/yoshi-angular-dependencies), make sure to bump them too:

```

> npm install --save yoshi-style-dependencies@4.1.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npm install --save-dev yoshi-style-dependencies@4.1.0
```

```

And/or:

```

> npm install --save yoshi-angular-dependencies@4.1.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npm install --save-dev yoshi-angular-dependencies@4.1.0
```

```

> If you depend on [jest-yoshi-preset](), it now comes with Yoshi by default, so make sure to remove it from your `package.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you depend on [jest-yoshi-preset](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/tree/version_4.x/packages/jest-yoshi-preset), it now comes with Yoshi by default, so make sure to remove it from your `package.json`.
```

**Finally, for TypeScript projects, Yoshi now requires TypeScript with a minimum version of 2.9.0.**

### Babel config is no longer needed

> Previously, every project could configure their own Babel presets and rules. While giving projects flexibility, it made it harder to create a good experience. Yoshi now configures Babel internally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, every project needed to configure their own Babel presets and rules. While giving projects flexibility, it created duplicated boilerplate and made it harder to create a good experience. Yoshi now configures Babel internally.
```

> If your project is a Babel project, please make sure to remove your `.babelrc` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your project isn't using Typescript, please make sure to remove your `.babelrc` file.
```

I'm not sure that everyone instantly recognizes their project as a Babel project.

### `yoshi start` doesn't run tests by default

> We've changed the default behavior of `yoshi start`. We recommend that you use `yoshi start` to start your local development environment and that you run your tests in a separate terminal.

Reviewer 2: I would add the Jest by default section to be before that one, as it's logically related.
It also helps to explain the why behind the decision.

```suggestion
Jest is now the default test runner. Running its immersive watch mode along with `npm start` hides the dev server output.

We recommend that you use `yoshi start` to start your local development environment and that you run your tests in a separate terminal.
```

Author: I like it, thanks.

If you're still interested in running your tests in the same terminal, use `yoshi start --with-tests`.

### TypeScript definitions for Yoshi

Currently, every TypeScript project has to define build related types:

```js
// sass
declare module '*.scss';

// json
declare module '*.json';

// png
declare module '*.png';
```

> Those types are defined as `any` and require the developer to add new ones when they use a new type of asset supported by Yoshi. Instead, Yoshi now comes its own `types.d.ts` and each asset has its own type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those types are defined as `any` and require the developer to add new ones when they use a new type of asset supported by Yoshi. Instead, Yoshi now supplies its own `types.d.ts` and each asset has its own type definition.
```

Then, change your `tsconfig.json`:

```diff
{
  "compilerOptions": {
-    "lib": ["dom", "es2016", "es2017"],
+    "lib": ["dom", "esnext"],
+    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "..."
  },
  "files": [

> +    "./node_modules/yoshi/types.d.ts",

Reviewer: wouldn't it work automatically if we will have a `types` entry in `yoshi`'s `package.json`? [Link to docs](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/publishing.html)

Author: Just checked, it doesn't. It looks like this only works for packages that you require or import.

    "..."
  ]
}
```

> Finally, remove any old types you had on assets handled by Yoshi:

Reviewer: Consider providing the default path in the generator, so they won't need to look for the file

Reviewer: I was wrong!

```diff
-declare module '*.scss';
-declare module '*.json';

interface Window {
  __BASEURL__: string;
}
```

### SVGs that are `require()`'d now has a `.default` property

Previously, we could `require` (this does not include using `import`) SVG files like this:

```js
const logo = require("./logo.svg");

const App = () => <img src={logo} />;
```

If you want to keep this specific use-case working, you'll need to update it like the following:

```js
const logo = require("./logo.svg");

const App = () => <img src={logo.default} />;
```

### Setting `window.__STATICS_BASE_URL__` is no longer needed

> Setting `__STATICS_BASE_URL__` to point to your project's statics URL on parastorage is no longer needed. This means that unless you access it yourself, please remove this line from your `ejs` or `vm` file.

Reviewer 2: I would send a link to the PR explaining in depth what is this `__STATICS_BASE_URL__` and what it was used for.

How would I know that my apps still working after removing it?

### Jest test files locations have been changed (**Only relevant for projects using `jest-yoshi-preset`**)

We've changed the test file glob patterns to be more flexible:

- We recommend that you change the directory `test` -> `__tests__` which places it at the top and makes it easier to identify because of the `__` prefix and suffix.

- We changed the test setup to only have two environments instead of 3:

  - `e2e` - An environment that will start your server and a puppeteer page.
  - `spec` - An environment for running unit and component tests which set up JSDOM.

Files that end with `.e2e.(js|ts)` will use e2e environment, while files that end with `.spec.(js|ts)` will use spec environment, regardless of where in the project those files are in. To make migration easier, please start by running a helper scripts, which will change your project's files to the new glob patterns:

```
TODO migrate scripts
```

> ### Puppeteer actions in Jest have a lower default timeout

Reviewer 2: Worth mentioning that this feature is only if you use `jest-yoshi-preset`

Puppeteer has a default timeout of 30 seconds for most operations. Since most E2E tests take no longer than 30 seconds, we changed Puppeteer's default timeout to 5 seconds.

This means that when tests fail, you'll know about it faster. It also means that you'll know which line in the test timed out.

See [Puppeteer's docs](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer/blob/v1.13.0/docs/api.md#pagesetdefaulttimeouttimeout) if you want to change this value back.

### `yoshi test` runs Jest by default

We want to encourage as many developers as possible to use Jest as their testing platform. From v4, running `yoshi test` will run Jest instead of Mocha and Protractor.

To use the previous default, make the following change (only if you're not using Jest):

```diff
-yoshi test
+yoshi test --mocha --protractor
```

### App flow

We recommend every app project (this includes client full-stack and universal apps, **but not libraries**) to start using this app flow.

To migrate, please follow [this guide](assets/app-flow-migration.md).

## The future

> One of our goals is to create a community around Yoshi. That other developers in the company will take an active part in its development. We work hard to create issues for problems and how we think they can be solved. We also try to maintain a [good place to start](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/blob/version_4.x/CONTRIBUTING.md) if you want to contribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of our goals is to create a community around Yoshi. That other developers in the company will take an active part in its development. We work hard to create issues for problems and explain how we think they can be solved. We also try to maintain a [good place to start](https://github.com/wix/yoshi/blob/version_4.x/CONTRIBUTING.md) if you want to contribute.
```
